Add new Blazor tutorial on BWA with EF Core (#32747)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/blazor/tutorials/movie-database-app/part-6.md

```razor
<QuickGrid Class="table" Items="DbFactory.CreateDbContext().Movie">
    ...
</QuickGrid>
```

The <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid.QuickGrid%601.Items%2A> parameter receives a nullable `IQueryable<TGridItem>`, where `TGridItem` is the type of data represented by each row in the grid. In this case, the `TGridItem` is a `DbSet<Movie>` obtained from the injected `BlazorWebAppMoviesContext` (`DB`).

To make the `QuickGrid` component filter on the movie title, the `Index` component should:

* Set a filter string as a *component parameter* from the query string.
* If the parameter has a value, filter the movies returned from the database.
* Provide an input for the user to provide the filter string and a button to trigger a reload using the filter.

Start by adding the following `@code` block of C# code to the `Index` component:

```razor
@code {
    [SupplyParameterFromQuery]
    public string TitleFilter { get; set; }
    
    IQueryable<Movie> FilteredMovies => DbFactory.CreateDbContext().Movie

>         .Where(movie => movie.Title!.Contains(TitleFilter ?? ""));

Author: ```suggestion
        .Where(movie => movie.Title!.Contains(TitleFilter ?? string.Empty));
```

Run the app and navigate to the movies `Index` page at `/movies`. The movies in the database load:

![Mad Max movies before filtering in the movies Index page](~/blazor/tutorials/movie-database-app/part-6/_static/before-filtering.png)

Append a query string to the URL in the address bar: `?titleSearch=road+warrior`. For example, the full URL appears as `https://localhost:7073/movies?titleSearch=road+warrior`, assuming the port number is `7073`. The filtered movie is displayed:

!['The Road Warrior' Mad Max movie filtered using a query string in the browser's address bar](~/blazor/tutorials/movie-database-app/part-6/_static/query-string-filter-result.png)

Next, give users a way to provide the `titleSearch` filter string via the component's UI. Add the following HTML under the H1 heading (`<h1>Index</h1>`). The following HTML reloads the page with the contents of the textbox as a query string value:

```html
<p>

>     <form action="/movies">

Author: ```suggestion
    <form action="/movies" data-enhance>
```

---
title: Build a Blazor movie database app (Part 6 - Add search)
author: guardrex
description: This part of the Blazor movie database app tutorial explains how to add a search feature to filter movies by title.
monikerRange: '>= aspnetcore-8.0'
ms.author: riande
ms.custom: mvc
ms.date: 05/28/2024
uid: blazor/tutorials/movie-database-app/part-6
zone_pivot_groups: tooling
---
# Build a Blazor movie database app (Part 6 - Add search)

<!-- UPDATE 9.0 Activate after release

[!INCLUDE[](~/includes/not-latest-version.md)]

-->

This article is the sixth part of the Blazor movie database app tutorial that teaches you the basics of building an ASP.NET Core Blazor Web App with features to manage a movie database.

This part of the tutorial series covers adding a search feature to the movies `Index` component to filter movies by title.

## Implement a filter feature for the `QuickGrid` component

The [`QuickGrid`](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid) component is used by the movie `Index` component (`Components/MoviePages/Index.razor`) to display movies from the database:

```razor

> <QuickGrid Class="table" Items="DB.Movie">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<QuickGrid Class="table" Items="DbFactory.CreateDbContext().Movie">
```

    ...
</QuickGrid>
```

The <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid.QuickGrid%601.Items%2A> parameter receives a nullable `IQueryable<TGridItem>`, where `TGridItem` is the type of data represented by each row in the grid. In this case, the `TGridItem` is a `DbSet<Movie>` obtained from the injected `BlazorWebAppMoviesContext` (`DB`).

To make the `QuickGrid` component filter on the movie title, the `Index` component should:

* Set a filter string as a *component parameter* from the query string.
* If the parameter has a value, filter the movies returned from the database.
* Provide an input for the user to provide the filter string and a button to trigger a reload using the filter.

Start by adding the following `@code` block of C# code to the `Index` component:

```razor
@code {

>     private IQueryable<Movie>? movies;
> 
>     [SupplyParameterFromQuery]
>     public string? TitleFilter { get; set; }
> 
>     protected override void OnParametersSet()
>     {
>         if (!string.IsNullOrEmpty(TitleFilter))
>         {
>             movies = DB.Movie.Where(
>                 s => !string.IsNullOrEmpty(s.Title) ? 
>                     s.Title.Contains(TitleFilter) : false);
>         }
>         else
>         {
>             movies = DB.Movie;
>         }
>     }

Reviewer: Suggested simplification:

```suggestion
    [SupplyParameterFromQuery]
    public string TitleFilter { get; set; }
    
    IQueryable<Movie> FilteredMovies => DbFactory.CreateDbContext().Movie
        .Where(movie => movie.Title!.Contains(TitleFilter ?? ""));
```

}
```

> The `movies` collection is an `IQueryable<Movie>`, which is the type for assignment to the `QuickGrid`'s <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid.QuickGrid%601.Items%2A> parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `FilteredMovies` property is an `IQueryable<Movie>`, which is the type for assignment to the `QuickGrid`'s <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid.QuickGrid%601.Items%2A> parameter.
```

`TitleFilter` is the filter string. The property is provided the [`[SupplyParameterFromQuery]` attribute](xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.SupplyParameterFromQueryAttribute), which lets Blazor know that the value of `TitleFilter` should be assigned from the query string when the query string contains a field of the same name (for example, `?titleFilter=road+warrior`). Note that query string field names aren't case sensitive.

> The `OnParametersSet` Blazor component lifecycle method executes after parameters are set. The method checks if `TitleFilter` has a value and either:
> 
> * Filters the database for movies with a title that contains the filter string.
> * Returns all of the movies if the filter string (`TitleFilter`) is `null`, which happens if `titleFilter` isn't present in the query string or no value is supplied for the field in the query string (`?titleFilter=`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `FilteredMovies` property filters the list of movies based on the supplied `TitleFilter`. If no `TitleFilter` isn't present in the query string, then no movies are filtered.
```

Change the `QuickGrid` component's <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid.QuickGrid%601.Items%2A> parameter to use the `movies` collection:

```diff

> - <QuickGrid Class="table" Items="DB.movies">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <QuickGrid Class="table" Items="DbFactory.CreateDbContext().Movie">
```

> + <QuickGrid Class="table" Items="@movies">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+ <QuickGrid Class="table" Items="@FilteredMovies">
```

```

> [!NOTE]

> > Scaffolded code doesn't prefix component parameter values with `@` as a convention, but documentation examples always do. In the preceding example, assigning only `movie` without prefixing the `@` symbol (`Items="movies"`) is valid Razor syntax, but documentation examples always show such assignments with the `@` symbol (`Items="@movies"`) to indicate that C# is provided. When the `@` is explicitly added, the markup makes it clear that the value isn't a string literal being passed to `string`-typed parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Scaffolded code doesn't prefix component parameter values with `@` as a convention, but documentation examples always do. In the preceding example, assigning only `FilteredMovies` without prefixing the `@` symbol (`Items="FilteredMovies"`) is valid Razor syntax, but documentation examples always show such assignments with the `@` symbol (`Items="@FilteredMovies"`) to indicate that C# is provided. When the `@` is explicitly added, the markup makes it clear that the value isn't a string literal being passed to `string`-typed parameter.
```

> The `s => s.Title.Contains()` code is a *lambda expression*. Lambdas are used in method-based LINQ queries as arguments to standard query operator methods such as the `Where` or `Contains` methods. LINQ queries aren't executed when they're defined or when they're modified by calling a method, such as `Where`, `Contains`, or `OrderBy`. Rather, query execution is deferred. The evaluation of an expression is delayed until its realized value is iterated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `movie => movie.Title!.Contains()` code is a *lambda expression*. Lambdas are used in method-based LINQ queries as arguments to standard query operator methods such as the `Where` or `Contains` methods. LINQ queries aren't executed when they're defined or when they're modified by calling a method, such as `Where`, `Contains`, or `OrderBy`. Rather, query execution is deferred. The evaluation of an expression is delayed until its realized value is iterated.
```

Run the app and navigate to the movies `Index` page at `/movies`. The movies in the database load:

![Mad Max movies before filtering in the movies Index page](~/blazor/tutorials/movie-database-app/part-6/_static/before-filtering.png)

Append a query string to the URL in the address bar: `?titleSearch=road+warrior`. For example, the full URL appears as `https://localhost:7073/movies?titleSearch=road+warrior`, assuming the port number is `7073`. The filtered movie is displayed:

!['The Road Warrior' Mad Max movie filtered using a query string in the browser's address bar](~/blazor/tutorials/movie-database-app/part-6/_static/query-string-filter-result.png)

Next, give users a way to provide the `titleSearch` filter string via the component's UI. Add the following HTML under the H1 heading (`<h1>Index</h1>`). The following HTML reloads the page with the contents of the textbox as a query string value:

```html
<p>

>     <form action="/movies">

Author: I didn't think in this case with so few records that there would be a better user experience. Because this tutorial can't demo it, I wonder if a passing paragraph can tell readers what adding `data-enhance` does.

>     <form action="/movies">

Reviewer: Without `data-enhance`, when you submit the form you will get a full page reload. With `data-enhance`, Blazor will intercept the form post and update the DOM in place, so the page will update seamlessly and avoid requesting assets that were previously downloaded.

>         <input type="text" name="titleFilter" />

Reviewer: Maybe make this a search input?

```suggestion
        <input type="search" name="titleFilter" />
```

        <input type="submit" value="Search" />
    </form>
</p>
```

:::zone pivot="vs"

> The next instruction is to run the app again. Save the file that you're working on. Visual Studio automatically recompiles and runs the app with your saved changes, so you can return to the existing browser window to see the result. You don't need to stop and restart the app for many types of code changes when using Visual Studio.

Author: I'm confused by "predates," unless you just mean that I didn't explain how to use Hot Reload, which is true 🙈. I'll probably work on this line a little more. I should at least cross-link a VS Hot Reload doc in the *Additional Resources* section of this article.

Something strange is going on here tho: I used Hot Reload earlier with my test app, and it was working fine. Now, it's not working for some unknown reason.

> The next instruction is to run the app again. Save the file that you're working on. Visual Studio automatically recompiles and runs the app with your saved changes, so you can return to the existing browser window to see the result. You don't need to stop and restart the app for many types of code changes when using Visual Studio.

Reviewer: I mean that prior to hot reload support being added VS would auto rebuild and rerun the app when you made code changes. Later we added hot reload support, which applies the code changes to the running app. Hot reload is now the default behavior, not the older rebuild & rerun behavior.

:::zone-end

:::zone pivot="vsc"

The next instruction is to run the app again. Close the browser window and in VS Code select **Run** > **Restart Debugging** or press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Shift</kbd>+<kbd>F5</kbd> on the keyboard. VS Code recompiles and runs the app with your saved changes and spawns a new browser window for the app.

:::zone-end

:::zone pivot="cli"

> The next instruction is to run the app again. Stop the app in the command shell with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> (Windows) or <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> (macOS). Rerun the app with `dotnet watch`. Return to the existing browser window and refresh it to reload the app.

Author: Yes ... a blown update from a Find-'n-Replace 😈 when I was changing the command from `dotnet run`.

> The next instruction is to run the app again. Stop the app in the command shell with <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> (Windows) or <kbd>⌘</kbd>+<kbd>C</kbd> (macOS). Rerun the app with `dotnet watch`. Return to the existing browser window and refresh it to reload the app.

Author: ```suggestion
The next instruction is to run the app again. Because the app is currently running with `dotnet watch`, saved changes are detected automatically and reflected in the existing browser window.
```

```razor
<QuickGrid Class="table" Items="DbFactory.CreateDbContext().Movie">
    ...
</QuickGrid>
```

The <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid.QuickGrid%601.Items%2A> parameter receives an `IQueryable<TGridItem>`, where `TGridItem` is the type of data represented by each row in the grid (`Movie`). <xref:Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid.QuickGrid%601.Items%2A> is assigned a collection of movie entities (`DbSet<Movie>`) obtained from the created database context (`CreateDbContext`) of the injected database context factory (`DbFactory`).

To make the `QuickGrid` component filter on the movie title, the `Index` component should:

* Set a filter string as a *component parameter* from the query string.
* If the parameter has a value, filter the movies returned from the database.
* Provide an input for the user to provide the filter string and a button to trigger a reload using the filter.

Start by adding the following `@code` block of C# code to the `Index` component (`MoviePages/Index.razor`):

```razor
@code {
    [SupplyParameterFromQuery]
    public string? TitleFilter { get; set; }
    

>     private IQueryable<Movie> FilteredMovies => DbFactory.CreateDbContext().Movie

Reviewer: Here's another case where we probably need to handle disposing the DbContext.

Author: IIRC 🤔, Jeremy's code that disposes only does so when it's assigned. I may have guessed incorrectly that in these two cases (here and for the `Items` assignment) that they would be OK like this.

Reviewer: Adding folks to review and comment on whether we need to dispose the created DbContext here as well: @JeremyLikness @javiercn @deepchoudhery @halter73

Reviewer 2: I imagine we should be disposing instances per component ala [this](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/blazor-ef-core?view=aspnetcore-8.0#scope-to-the-component-lifetime:~:text=component%20is%20disposed%3A-,C%23,public%20void%20Dispose()%0A%7B%0A%20%20%20%20Context%3F.Dispose()%3B%0A%7D,-Finally%2C%20OnInitializedAsync) example

Author: @deepchoudhery ... AFAIK, Jeremy only disposes if the context is assigned. In both of the cases here, no assignment is made.

Reviewer 3: we should dispose - page has hooks for shared context scoped to page and components should dispose in their lifetime. I haven't reviewed the entire PR, so I don't have all the context (pardon the pun) but I would at least hook into one of the page lifecycle overrides to grab the movie list once and dispose the context.

Author: Gotcha @JeremyLikness ... I can take care of that. I'll get it squared away first thing tomorrow morning.

Reviewer: @JeremyLikness and I chatted about this some more. We should dispose, but we think we should stick with the pattern where we create-use-dispose the context for each unit of work instead of tying the context lifetime to the lifetime of the component.

Author: BTW ... Based on the discussion, this guidance isn't correct ...

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/blazor/components/quickgrid?view=aspnetcore-8.0&tabs=visual-studio#entity-framework-core-ef-core-data-source

Reviewer: I opened https://github.com/dotnet/Scaffolding/issues/2870 to address the underlying issue in the Blazor CRUD scaffolder.

Author: @danroth27 ... Questions ...

* Property or field for the context?
* Would you like that init and disposal set up async?

```razor
@page "/movies"
@rendermode InteractiveServer
@using BlazorWebAppMovies.Data
@using Microsoft.EntityFrameworkCore
@using Microsoft.AspNetCore.Components.QuickGrid
@using BlazorWebAppMovies.Models
@inject IDbContextFactory<BlazorWebAppMovies.Data.BlazorWebAppMoviesContext> DbFactory
@implements IAsyncDisposable

<PageTitle>Index</PageTitle>

<h1>Index</h1>

<p>
    <input type="search" @bind="titleFilter" @bind:event="oninput" />
</p>

<p>
    <a href="movies/create">Create New</a>
</p>

<QuickGrid Class="table" Items="FilteredMovies" Pagination="pagination">
    <PropertyColumn Property="movie => movie.Title" Sortable="true" />
    <PropertyColumn Property="movie => movie.ReleaseDate" Title="Release Date" />
    <PropertyColumn Property="movie => movie.Genre" />
    <PropertyColumn Property="movie => movie.Price" />
    <PropertyColumn Property="movie => movie.Rating" />

    <TemplateColumn Context="movie">
        <a href="@($"movies/edit?id={movie.Id}")">Edit</a> |
        <a href="@($"movies/details?id={movie.Id}")">Details</a> |
        <a href="@($"movies/delete?id={movie.Id}")">Delete</a>
    </TemplateColumn>
</QuickGrid>

<Paginator State="pagination" />

@code {
    PaginationState pagination = new PaginationState { ItemsPerPage = 10 };
    private string titleFilter = string.Empty;
    private BlazorWebAppMoviesContext context = default!;
    
    protected override async Task OnInitializedAsync()
    {
        context = await DbFactory.CreateDbContextAsync();
    }

    private IQueryable<Movie> FilteredMovies => 
        context.Movie.Where(m => m.Title!.Contains(titleFilter));

    public async ValueTask DisposeAsync() => await context.DisposeAsync();
}

```

Author: @JeremyLikness ... This component has to filter entities with an `IQueryable` for the `QuickGrid` to return entities based on the `DbContext`, as opposed to getting the list on load. The above code works :tada:, but smells 💩👃 exist if using field is a bad idea and/or if async init/disposal are bad ideas.

Author: Per our chat on the scaffolding issue: The `Task` not completing in time for filling the grid will result in my stripping the async out (probably). I wish binding the items in some simple fashion would ✨ *automagically* ✨ fill the grid when the `Task` completes. I'll wait for more info, but now the code is headed toward ...

```razor
@implements IDisposable

...

protected override void OnInitialized()
{
        context = DbFactory.CreateDbContextAsync();
}

...

public Dispose() => context?.Dispose();
```

!['The Road Warrior' Mad Max movie filtered using a GET request via an HTML form action](~/blazor/tutorials/movie-database-app/part-6/_static/form-filter-result.png)

> Notice that the search box loses the search value ("`road warrior`") when the movies are filtered. If you want to preserve the searched value, add the `data-permanent` attribute:

Reviewer: Nice 👍
